HTA Attack in Action
We will use msfvenom to turn our basic
HTML Application into an attack,
relying on the hta-psh output format,
to create an HTA payload
based on PowerShell.
Once the complete reverse
shell payload is generated,
it is saved into the file evil.hta.
Let’s walk through the generated .hta file
to better understand how everything works.
One of the first things to note is that
the variable names have been randomized
in order to trick detection
and antivirus software.
PowerShell is executed by the Run method
of the Windows Scripting Host
along with three command line arguments.
The first argument, -nop,
is shorthand for NoProfile,
which prevents PowerShell
from loading the user profile
which might negatively impact
the execution of our code.
Next, our script uses -w hidden,
shorthand for WindowStyle hidden,
which avoids creating a window
on the user’s desktop.
Finally, the extremely important -e flag,
shorthand for EncodedCommand,
allows us to supply a Base64
encoded PowerShell script
directly as a command line argument.
We will host this new HTA
application on our Kali machine
and launch a Netcat listener
to test our attack.
Then we will emulate our victim
by browsing to the malicious URL
and accepting the two security warnings.
If everything goes according to plan,
we should be able to catch
a reverse shell.
Our malicious .hta file is executed,
and launches our reverse shell.
This attack vector allows us to
compromise a Windows client
through Internet Explorer
without the presence of a
specific software vulnerability.
Since the link to the HTML Application
can be delivered via email,
we can even compromise
NAT’d internal clients.